Karmada governance review (#503)
cncf/tag-contributor-strategy: governance/assessments/projects/karmada/2023-08-29.md

Projects may ask TAG Contributor Strategy for assistance in resolving any issues uncovered by the review. The TAG is available via our [slack channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/CT6CWS1JN), [email](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-tag-contributor-strategy), [GitHub](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy), or by joining our weekly meetings (listed on the [CNCF public calendar](https://www.cncf.io/calendar/)).

## Summary and Assessment

Status: Mostly Satisfactory

The Karamada governance seems well thought out and fitting for the project, but also does not seem to be kept completely up to date. Inactive maintainers should be removed and the membership and level of other people within the community should have a single source of truth.

### Executing the Assessment

This assesment was conducted by Bill Mulligan (Isovalent) in August 2023.

### Must-Fix Items

The following issues have been identified that need to be resolved before [project milestone or other requirement]:

> * Update the list of maintainers and create emeritus status

Author: ```suggestion
* Update the list of maintainers and create emeritus status
* Harmonize the Code of Conduct across the project
```

Recent changes to the governance include:

* None, the governance was set up and hasn't been changed since then

Areas of potential future development include:

* Keep the community membership up to date

### Governance Findings Table

| Finding Title | Importance | Description | Links | Notes & Impact |
|:------------- |:----------:|:------------|:------|:---------------|
| Inactive maintainers | High | Inactive maintainers should be moved to Emeritus | [Maintianers](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md) | It is important to remove commit access when maintainers are no longer active in the project |

> | Conflicting Owners Files | High | Owners files should have a single source of truth | [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/OWNERS)  [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/OWNERS) [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/contributors/guide/owners.md) | It is hard to understand who runs the project when there are conflicting sources of truth |

Author: ```suggestion
| Conflicting Owners Files | High | Owners files should have a single source of truth | [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/OWNERS)  [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/OWNERS) [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/contributors/guide/owners.md) | It is hard to understand who runs the project when there are conflicting sources of truth |
| Conflicting Code of Conducts | High | There should be a single CoC across the project | [Main repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [Community repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) | There are two conflicting CoCs in the project, one should be chosen|
```

# Governance Review Template

What follows is a governance review and assessment for the Karmada project. This review is carried out by members of the Governance Working Group of TAG Contributor Strategy. The review may have been done because of a change in maturity level for the project, at the request of the TOC, or as a request by the project itself. If requested by the project, the review will be provided to the project maintainers. Otherwise, the review will be submitted to the TOC for their follow-up.

Projects may ask TAG Contributor Strategy for assistance in resolving any issues uncovered by the review. The TAG is available via our [slack channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/CT6CWS1JN), [email](https://lists.cncf.io/g/cncf-tag-contributor-strategy), [GitHub](https://github.com/cncf/tag-contributor-strategy), or by joining our weekly meetings (listed on the [CNCF public calendar](https://www.cncf.io/calendar/)).

## Summary and Assessment

Status: Mostly Satisfactory

> The Karamada governance seems well thought out and fitting for the project, but also does not seem to be kept completely up to date. Inactive maintainers should be removed and the membership and level of other people within the community should have a single source of truth.

Author: I think this was a mistake?

### Executing the Assessment

This assesment was conducted by Bill Mulligan (Isovalent) in August 2023.

### Must-Fix Items

The following issues have been identified that need to be resolved before [project milestone or other requirement]:

> * Update the list of maintainers and create emeritus status

Author: ```suggestion
* Update the list of maintainers
```

> * Update the list of maintainers and create emeritus status

Author: good point, I've removed the emeritus status

> * Harmonize the Code of Conduct across the project

Author: updated below

### Areas for Improvement

Over the next year, the project should work on the following issues to improve its governance, these are considered non-blocking:

> * Make communtiy membership publically trackable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make community membership publicly trackable
```

* Synchronize OWNERS files and make sure the APPROVERS and REVIEWERS are up to date

## Review

### Governance Description

Karmada is governed by a simple Maintainer Council-style governance, where there are a small group of Maintainers who perform all governance functions for the project. This is an extremely common governance structure and satisfactory for a variety of projects.

### Discoverability

#### Governance Location

> [Governance documentation](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md) may be found in Karmada's community [repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/tree/main). The following parts of Karmada's governance are well-defined in this documentation:

Reviewer 2: Can we use commit hashes in the links to the files in GitHub? The reviews are done using snapshots in the time.

Author: Doesn't the data already give that too?

- Values
- Maintainer voting procedures
- Official project communications channels and meetings

> - Community Ladder

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Contributor Ladder
```

| Code of Conduct | Partial | [Main repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [Community repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) | Karmada currently has two CoCs, it would be helpful to clarifiy which they are using |
| Contributor Guide | Complete | [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) | Could be helpful to flesh this out and make it more project specific |
| Contributor Ladder | Partial | [Community Membership](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/community-membership.md) | The roles are laid out, but the owners files are not in synce with the approvers and reviewers |
| Maintainer Lifecycle | Partial | [Community Membership](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/community-membership.md#maintainer) | Adding emeritus process when revoking would be helpful |
| Decision-making | Complete | [Voting](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/GOVERNANCE.md#voting) | Mainly based on lazy consensus |

> | Code and Docs Ownership | Partial | [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/OWNERS), [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/OWNERS), [Approvers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/APPROVERS.md), and [Reviewers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/REVIEWERS.md) | All of the files are currently out of sync with each other. It would be helpful to have a single source of truth |

Reviewer 3: The OWNERS file is used to designate responsibility over `different parts` of the Karmada codebase, each directory that contains a unit of independent code or content may contain an OWNERS file. 

Since Karmada uses [Prow](https://docs.prow.k8s.io/docs/overview/) to provide GitHub automation in the form of policy enforcement, chat-ops via /foo style commands, and automatic PR merging. The prow can pick reviewer/approver from the OWNERS file for assignment.

So, I don't quite understand how to sync these files with each other.

Author: For example:

In the approvers [file](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/APPROVERS.md), carmark, GitHubxsy, and zoroyouxi are listed as approvers for the community repo, but looking at the [owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/OWNERS) file in the community repo we have carmark, GitHubxsy, kevin-wangzefeng, lfbear, mrlihanbo, RainbowMango, and zoroyouxi.

which one is correct?

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I get it now. The `owners file list` in [APPROVERS.md](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/APPROVERS.md) is not an exhaustive list. 
For those approvers, they might take responsibility for multiple parts of the code base, so their names will be present in multiple OWNERS files the list might be pretty long, and hard(maintenance effort concern) to keep them in sync. So we just list at most 3 owners files there.

Do you suggest that list all owners files there? My concern is the maintenance effort.

Author: I might actually suggest the opposite and not list any owners files in the approvers or reviewers and instead tell people to look at the owners file in the repo they are concerned with. So the approvers.md and reviewers.md list everyone and the owners file just list who has is responsible for each repo.

| Security Reporting and response | Complete | [Security.md ](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/security-team/SECURITY.md)| |
| Communication and Meetings | Complete | [Meetings](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/README.md#meeting) | This would be helpful to link or reference in the contributing guide |

#### Sub-projects, plugins, and related

The project includes the following sub-projects, plugins, and other notable divisions:

> None

Reviewer 4: In the karmada-io github organization there is a fork of the kubernetes nginx-ingress with multi-cluster support:
https://github.com/karmada-io/multi-cluster-ingress-nginx

This project is referenced in https://karmada.io/docs/userguide/service/multi-cluster-ingress/. Is this only a sample implementation, some added functionality to be later added to nginx-ingress or a supported component by the karmada project? Is it still maintained (last commit was a while ago)?

Also in the topic of plugins/sub-projects, the project supports providers for its APIs:
https://github.com/karmada-io/multicluster-cloud-provider

Is there info on where they're hosted and who maintains them?

Reviewer 3: >  Is this only a sample implementation, some added functionality to be later added to nginx-ingress or a supported component by the karmada project? Is it still maintained (last commit was a while ago)?

Yes, it's a sample implementation. Thanks for the reminder, I think we can document it somewhere, probably at the repo README as well as the website.  Does that make sense?

The `multicluster-cloud-provider`, is maintained by the Karmada community and consists of public interfaces as well as some common implementations.  The users would implement their cloud-specified providers based on that.

### Operation

> The community meeting [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y6YLVC-v7cmVAdbjedoyR5WL0-q45DBRXTvz5_I7bkA/edit#heading=h.g61sgp7w0d0c) has a lively history of meetings and topics. The karmada [slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C02MUF8QXUN) channel is active with reponses from the community, but it seems there are less answers in the karmada dev [channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C02NDR16M3K).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The community meeting [doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1y6YLVC-v7cmVAdbjedoyR5WL0-q45DBRXTvz5_I7bkA/edit#heading=h.g61sgp7w0d0c) has a lively history of meetings and topics. The Karmada [Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C02MUF8QXUN) channel is active with responses from the community, but it seems there are less answers in the Karmada dev [channel](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C02NDR16M3K).
```

#### Transparency and freshness

Transparency for a project is exemplified in the public documentation, record, and communications, allowing observers and contributors to monitor the project's adherence to their stated governance. Freshness indicates governance activities mirror the documented governance for the project, and have been reviewed or updated recently.

The project's governance documentation and activities are not currently up to date. The project currently has two different owners files in different repos ([Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/OWNERS) and [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/OWNERS)) and the community ladder currenly links to a third [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/contributors/guide/owners.md) that is currently empty. 

> The [Approvers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/APPROVERS.md) is a relatively new so seems to be up to date while the [Reviewers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/REVIEWERS.md) has not been updated very much since it was created. This is also out of sync with the nubmer listed in the incubation proposal, but it may be because that document was created in December 2022.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The [Approvers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/APPROVERS.md) is a relatively new and appears up to date while the [Reviewers](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/REVIEWERS.md) has not been updated very much since it was created. This file is also out of sync with the number listed in the incubation proposal, but it likely because that document was created in December 2022.
```

There are currently 6 outstanding [requests](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/issues) for community membership, some as old as 7 weeks. Community membership is also not tracked publically so it is hard to tell how many members there are. 

#### Governance Drift

The project does experience governance drift as indicated by inactive maintainers and no new maintainer onboarding.

#### Ownership

The project's ownership evaluation did not leverage Sheriff, the CNCF GitHub permission auditing tool.

The project's permissions and ownership settings and files were not checked.

### Maintainer List(s)

> The project's maintainer list is not current. Individuals on the maintainer list do not appear to match the requirements of maintainership in accordance with the project's documented requirements. The maintainer affiliations (employers) reflect Balanced diversity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The project's maintainer list is not current. Individuals on the maintainer list do not appear to match the requirements of maintainership in accordance with the project's documented requirements. The maintainer affiliations (employers) reflect Balanced diversity. Based on a review of the Devstats data:
```

I'm assuming that's where you got the data?

@mrlihanbo has not contributed since August 2022
@carmark has not contributed since August 2021
@zoroyouxi has no public contributions

> @lfbear has not contributed since December 2021

Reviewer 5: for future reviews, it may be beneficial to define what is observable as a contribution? or perhaps where contributions were looked at (GitHub, slack, discussions, meetings, etc.). I know we wont check all the places, but it does set context for what was or wasnt discoverable.

Author: Should I create an issue for this?

Reviewer 6: No, we just need to say what data we looked at for contributions.

Major milestones in the project's governance over time include:

* From the Incubation [doc](https://github.com/cncf/toc/pull/986) "We attach great importance to developers and our community has matured significantly. We have established the community membership and wrote a solid contributor guide. Based on this open and transparent mechanism, developers can continue to grow while equally participating in the project. We have established a mature mentor mechanism in the community. Some active and qualified contributors, mentored attentively, have been promoted to members or maintainers. Also, we are actively involved in various open source events, such as LFX mentorship, helping college students better grow in the open source community."

Recent changes to the governance include:

* None, the governance was set up and hasn't been changed since then

Areas of potential future development include:

* Keep the community membership up to date

### Governance Findings Table

| Finding Title | Importance | Description | Links | Notes & Impact |
|:------------- |:----------:|:------------|:------|:---------------|

> | Inactive maintainers | High | Inactive maintainers should be moved to Emeritus | [Maintianers](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md) | It is important to remove commit access when maintainers are no longer active in the project |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Inactive maintainers | High | Inactive maintainers should be moved to Emeritus | [Maintainers](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/MAINTAINERS.md) | It is important to remove commit access when maintainers are no longer active in the project |
```

| Conflicting Owners Files | High | Owners files should have a single source of truth | [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/OWNERS)  [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/OWNERS) [Owners](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/contributors/guide/owners.md) | It is hard to understand who runs the project when there are conflicting sources of truth |

> | Conflicting Code of Conducts | High | There should be a single CoC across the project | [Main repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [Community repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) | There are two conflicting CoCs in the project, one should be chosen|

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
| Conflicting Code of Conducts | High | There should be a single CoC across the project | [Main repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/karmada/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) and [Community repo](https://github.com/karmada-io/community/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) | There are two conflicting CoCs in the project, one should be chosen and should be inclusive of the current CNCF CoC.|
```
